<< draft edit; subject to change >>
May 17, 2022 09:00:01 AM, House Permanent Select Committee On Intelligence, HVC-210t::8:19;;Carson
We will now turn to the business of this hearing.
More than fifty years ago the U.S. government ended Project BLUE BOOK-- an effort to catalog and understand sightings of objects in the air that could not otherwise be explained.
For more than twenty years that project has treated unidentified anomalies in our airspace as a national security threat to be monitored and investigated.
In 2017 we learned for the first time that the Department of Defense had quietly started restarted a similar organization tracking what we now call Unidentified Aerial Phenomenon or UAPs.
* Last year Congress rewrote the charter for that organization now called the Airborne Object Identification And Management Synchronization Group or AIMSOG for short.
Today we will bring that organization out of the shadows.
This hearing and oversite work has a simple idea at its core.
Unidentified Aerial Phenomenon are a potential national security threat and they need to be treated that way.
For too long the stigma associated with UAPs has gotten in the way of good intelligence analysis.
Pilots avoided reporting or were laughed at when they did.
DOD officials relegated the issue to the backroom or swept it under the rug entirely fearful of a sceptical national security community.
Today we know better.
UAPs are unexplained; It's true.
But they are real.
They need to be investigated and any threats they pose need to be mitigated.
Under Secretary Multrie, Mr. Brey, thank you for coming today.
First we need you to update us on the status of AIMSOG.
The legistlation creating it was passed in December;
The deadline for implementation is fast approaching.
But the group does not even have a named Director.
We need to know, sirs, the status of the organization and any obstacle to getting it up and running.
Secondly, you have to convince the audience today, and most especially the military and civilian aviators, the culture has changed: that those who report UAPs will be treated as witnesses, not as cooks.
Thirdly, you need to show us, Congress, and the American public whose imaginations you've captured, you are willing to follow the facts where they lead.
* You know we fear sometimes that the DOD is focused more on emphasizing what it can explain, not investigating what it can.
Looking for you to assure us today that all conclusions are on the table.
One final note: we are mindful today that AIMSOG is not starting from scratch.
This is the third version of this task force in DOD.
And civil society groups like Mutual UFO Network-- Mr. Corbel and others-- have been collecting data on this issue for years.
I hope you'll explain how you can leverage the knowledge and experience of our prior work on this matter to move the AIMSOG along.
The last time Congress had a hearing on UAPs was half a century ago.
I hope that it does not take fifty more years for Congress to hold another because transparency is desperately needed.
I now turn to ranking member Crawford for comments he'd like to make.
May 17, 2022 09:00:01 AM, House Permanent Select Committee On Intelligence, HVC-210t::11:51;;Crawford
Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
Honorable Multrie, Mr. Brey, thank you for coming here today-- we appreciate it-- to begin the open dialogue between Congress and the executive branch on this important topic.
While this topic evokes creative imaginations of many, despite all the hype and speculation there are important underlying issues posed by UAPs.
Despite the serious nature of this topic I have to say I am more interested in our understanding of Chinese and Russian hypersonic weapon development or understanding why this Administration was so slow to share actionable intelligence with the Ukrainians.
However as much as this topic may help us better understand unknown activities of Russia and China, I am on board.
The intelligence community has a serious duty to our taxpayers to prevent potential adversaries, such as China and Russia, from suprising us from unforseen, new technologies.
As overseers of the intelligence community this committee has an abligation to understand what you are doing to determine whether any UAPs are new technologies or not and if they are, where are they coming from?
In general, the IC spends much of its time and resources trying to understand what we call known unknowns.
When it comes to foreign nations, weapons systems and sensors, known unknowns are those features that we don't fully understand yet.
The challenge associated with UAP is that that they are completely unknown and require a more expansive collection analysis effort.
The intelligence community must balance addressing known threats to our national security with preventing technical suprise.
We must continue to follow the facts where they lead us and insure there are no technical suprises.
The IC must take it seriously when there are credible observations of phenomenon that seem to perform in ways that could pose a threat to safe flight operations or they could be signs of a foreign adversary's attempt to develop a strategic, technological suprise against the United States.
It's also essential that our pilots and others feel they can report UAPs that they observe without any stigma for doing so.
This is the open, unclassified portion of our hearing.
We'll have a closed, classified part later.
It's important for the public to know that the classification of information exists to protect national security, not to try to hide the truth.
When we are trying to determine if any UAPs are new technologies being developed by foreign governments we are inevitably going to run into classified information about what new systems and technologies we do know are in the works here or abroad.
But where information does not risk national security it should be shared with our allies and the public when feasable.
I hope that we can have your assurance to this end today.
It's my hope that the intelligence community will continue to try to determine the nature of UAPs we've observed and will keep Congress fully apprised of all developments.
I look forward to this hearing and continued dialogue and oversite with the intelligence community on this topic.
And with that I yield back.
May 17, 2022 09:00:01 AM, House Permanent Select Committee On Intelligence, HVC-210t::14:29;;Carson
Gentleman yields back and now we turn to our distinguished Chairman, Adam Schiff, for any comments he wishes to make.
May 17, 2022 09:00:01 AM, House Permanent Select Committee On Intelligence, HVC-210t::14:33;;Schiff
Thank you, Chairman Carson, for holding this open hearing on unidentified aerial phenomenon and your leadership on this issue.
Holding a portion of our discussion today in open session is critical to the cause of transparency and openness which was Congress's intent in authorizing and funding this new task force.
The larger effort that is being undertaken to study and characterize UAP reports is an important step towards understanding these phenomenon: what we know and don't know.  
And I look forward to hearing more during both the open session and the closed setting about how the DOD and the IOC are undertaking that task.
UAP reports have been around for decades and yet we haven't had an orderly way for them to be reported without stigma and to be investigated.
That needs to change.
UAP reports need to be understood as a national security matter and that message needs to go out across the DOD, the IC, and the whole of U.S. Government.
When we spot something we don't understand or can't identify in our airspace it's the job of those we entrust with our national security to investigate and to report back.
That is why it is important that we hold this open hearing for the public to hear directly from the Department of Defense on the steps it's taking to track, analyse, and transparently communicate the work that is being done on this issue.
It is also the responsibility of our government and this panel to share as much as we can with the American people since excessive secrecy only breads distrust and speculation.
I look forward to hearing how the UAP task force is being setup, what challenges they still face, and how this committee can make sure the task force is able to shed light on one of the world's most enduring mysteries.
I thank you gentlemen for your work and will be very interested to hear what you have to say to me.
Among the most fascinating questions: Are these phenomenon that we can measure? 
That is, instruments report that something is there; It's not the human eye confusing objects in the sky.
There is something there measureable by multiple instruments and yet it seems to move in multiple directions that are inconsistent with what we know of Physics or Science more broadly.
And that to me poses questions of tremendous interest as well as potential national security significance.
So we look forward to what you are able to report to us today in open session and I want to thank Chairman Carson again for his extraordinary leadership on this issue and I yield back.
May 17, 2022 09:00:01 AM, House Permanent Select Committee On Intelligence, HVC-210t::17:04;;Carson
Chairman yields back.
Thank you.
With that we will start our hearing.
Under Secretary Moultrie, the floor is yours, sir.
May 17, 2022 09:00:01 AM, House Permanent Select Committee On Intelligence, HVC-210t::17:04;;Moultrie
Thank you.
Chairman Schiff, committee chairman Carson, ranking member Crawford, distinguished members of the subcomittee, it's a privilege to be here with you today to address your questions regarding unidentified aerial phenomenon or UAP.
I'm pleased to be joined by Mr. Scott Brey, the deputy director of naval intelligence, who will speak to the Navy's unidentified aerial phenomenon task force which laid the foundation for the efforts we will discuss today.
First I'd like to thank Congress for supporting the department's UAP effort.
The NDAA for fiscal year 2022 has helped us to establish a dedicated office to oversee processes and procedures for the timely collection, processing, analysis, and reporting of UAP related data.
What are UAP?
Put simply: UAP are airborne objects that, when encountered, cannot be immediately identified.
However it is the department's contention that by combining appropriately structured, collected data, with rigorous scientific analysis, any object that we encounter can likely be isolated, characterised, identified, and if necessary, mitigated.
We know that our service members have encountered unidentified aerial phenomenon.  
And because UAPs pose potential flight safety and general security risks, we are committed to a focused effort to determine their origins.
Our effort will include the thorough examination of adversarial platforms and potential breakthrough technologies, U.S. Government or commercial platforms, allied or partnered systems, and other natural phenomenon.
We also understand that there has been a cultural stigma surrounding UAP.
Our goal is to eliminate the stigma by fully incorporating our operators and mission personnel into a standardized data gathering process.
We believe that making UAP reporting a mission imperative will be instrumental to the effort's success.
The defense intelligence security enterprise provides real-time support for our war fighters and mission personel across all domains.
To optimize the department's UAP work we are establishing an office within the Office of the Secretary of Defense.
That office's function is clear: to facilitate the identification of previously unknown or unidentified airborne objects in a methodical, logical and standardized manner.
These goals will insure that we are working closely with operational personnel on training and reporting requirements, developing data and intelligence requirements, standardizing the integrating processes and procedures for collection, operational surveillance, analysis and reporting, leveraging our research and development capabilities to improve detection, characterization and identification of UAPs, developing mitigating solutions and procedures, and identifying strategy and policy solutions.
This effort will maximize collaboration and build upon already existing relationships with the Office of the Director of National Intelligence, the FAA, DHS, and the FBI.
We are also committed to strong partnerships with the Department of Energy, NOAA, the DEA, NASA, and the National Lab
and just as importantly, our international partners and allies.
With regard to the importance of transparency the department is fully committed to the principle of openness and accountability to the American people.
However, we are also mindful of our obligation to protect sensitive sources and methods.  
Our goal is to strike that delicate balance-- one that enables us to maintain the public's trust while preserving those capabilities that are vital to the support of our service personnel.
In closing, the department is committed to this effort and welcomes the challenge.
We thank you for your committed support and look forward to your questions.
May 17, 2022 09:00:01 AM, House Permanent Select Committee On Intelligence, HVC-210t::21:13;;Bray